Exercise 13: Parameters, Unpacking, Variables
=============================================

In this exercise we will cover one more input method you can use to pass
variables to a script (script being another name for your ``.rb``
files). You know how you type ``ruby ex13.rb`` to run the ``ex13.rb``
file? Well the ``ex13.rb`` part of the command is called an "argument".
What we'll do now is write a script that also accepts arguments.

Type this program and I'll explain it in detail:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex13.rb
    :language: ruby
    :linenos:

The ``ARGV`` is the "argument variable", a very standard name in
programming, that you will find used in many other languages. It's in
all caps because it's a constant, meaning you shouldn't change the value
once it's been assigned. This variable holds the arguments you pass to
your Ruby script when you run it. In the exercises you will get to play
with this more and see what happens.

Line 1 "unpacks" ``ARGV`` so that, rather than holding all the
arguments, it gets assigned to three variables you can work with:
``first``, ``second``, and ``third``. The name of the script itself is
stored in a special variable ``$0``, which we don't need to unpack. This
may look strange, but "unpack" is probably the best word to describe
what it does. It just says, "Take whatever is in ``ARGV``, unpack it,
and assign it to all of these variables on the left in order."

After that we just print them out like normal.

What You Should See
-------------------

Run the program like this:

::

    ruby ex13.rb first 2nd 3rd

This is what you should see when you do a few different runs with
different arguments:

::

    $ ruby ex13.rb first 2nd 3rd
    The script is called: ex13.rb
    Your first variable is: first
    Your second variable is: 2nd
    Your third variable is: 3rd

    $ ruby ex13.rb cheese apples bread
    The script is called: ex13.rb
    Your first variable is: cheese
    Your second variable is: apples
    Your third variable is: bread

    $ ruby ex13.rb Zed A. Shaw
    The script is called: ex13.rb
    Your first variable is: Zed
    Your second variable is: A.
    Your third variable is: Shaw

You can actually replace "first", "2nd", and "3rd" with any three
things. You do not have to give these parameters either, you can give
any 3 strings you want:

::

    ruby ex13.rb stuff I like
    ruby ex13.rb anything 6 7

Extra Credit
------------

1. Try giving fewer than three arguments to your script. What values are
   used for the missing arguments?
2. Write a script that has fewer arguments and one that has more. Make
   sure you give the unpacked variables good names.
3. Combine ``gets.chomp()`` with ``ARGV`` to make a script that gets
   more input from a user.

