Exercise 14: Prompting And Passing
==================================

Let's do one exercise that uses ``ARGV`` and ``gets.chomp()`` together
to ask the user something specific. You will need this for the next
exercise where we learn to read and write files. In this exercise we'll
print a simple ``>`` prompt. This is similar to a game like Zork or
Adventure.

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex14.rb
    :language: ruby
    :linenos:

**Important:** Also notice that we're using ``STDIN.gets``
instead of plain 'ol ``gets``. That is because if there is stuff in
``ARGV``, the default ``gets`` method tries to treat the first one as a
file and read from that. To read from the user's input (i.e., ``stdin``)
in such a situation, you have to use it ``STDIN.gets`` explicitly.

What You Should See
-------------------

When you run this, remember that you have to give the script your name
for the ``ARGV`` arguments.

.. code-block:: console

    $ ruby ex/ex14.rb Zed
    Hi Zed, I'm the ex/ex14.rb script.
    I'd like to ask you a few questions.
    Do you like me Zed?
    > Yes
    Where do you live Zed?
    > America
    What kind of computer do you have?
    > Tandy
    Alright, so you said Yes about liking me.
    You live in America.  Not sure where that is.
    And you have a Tandy computer.  Nice.

Extra Credit
------------

1. Find out what Zork and Adventure were. Try to find a copy and play
   it.
2. Change the ``prompt`` variable to something else entirely.
3. Add another argument and use it in your script.
4. Make sure you understand how I combined a ``<<SOMETHING`` style
   multi-line string with ``#{ }`` string interpolation as the last
   print.

