Exercise 30: Else And If
========================

In the last exercise you worked out some ``if-statements``, and then
tried to guess what they are and how they work. Before you learn more
I'll explain what everything is by answering the questions you had from
extra credit. You did the extra credit right?

1. What do you think the if does to the code under it? An ``if``
   statement creates what is called a "branch" in the code. It's kind of
   like those choose your own adventure books where you are asked to
   turn to one page if you make one choice, and another if you go a
   different direction. The ``if-statement`` tells your script, "If this
   boolean expression is True, then run the code under it, otherwise
   skip it."
2. Can you put other boolean expressions from Ex. 27 in the ``if``
   statement? Try it. Yes you can, and they can be as complex as you
   like, although really complex things generally are bad style.
3. What happens if you change the initial variables for people, cats,
   and dogs? Because you are comparing numbers, if you change the
   numbers, different ``if-statements`` will evaluate to **True** and
   the blocks of code under them will run. Go back and put different
   numbers in and see if you can figure out in your head what blocks of
   code will run.

Compare my answers to your answers, and make sure you really understand
the concept of a "block" of code. This is important for when you do the
next exercise where you write all the parts of ``if-statements`` that
you can use.

Type this one in and make it work too.

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex30.rb
    :language: ruby
    :linenos:

What You Should See
-------------------

::

    $ ruby ex30.rb
    We should take the cars.
    Maybe we could take the buses.
    Alright, let's just take the buses.
    $

Extra Credit
------------

1. Try to guess what ``elsif`` and ``else`` are doing.
2. Change the numbers of ``cars``, ``people``, and ``buses`` and then
   trace through each ``if-statement`` to see what will be printed.
3. Try some more complex boolean expressions like
   ``cars > people and buses < cars``. Above each line write an English
   description of what the line does.

