Exercise 32: Loops And Arrays
=============================

You should now be able to do some programs that are much more
interesting. If you have been keeping up, you should realize that now
you can combine all the other things you have learned with
``if-statements`` and boolean expressions to make your programs do smart
things.

However, programs also need to do repetitive things very quickly. We are
going to use a ``for-loop`` in this exercise to build and print various
arrays. When you do the exercise, you will start to figure out what they
are. I won't tell you right now. You have to figure it out.

Before you can use a ``for-loop``, you need a way to store the results
of loops somewhere. The best way to do this is with an ``array``. An
array is a container of things that are organized in order. It's not
complicated; you just have to learn a new syntax. First, there's how you
make an array:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex32.rb
    :language: ruby
    :linenos:


What you do is start the array with the ``[`` (left-bracket) which
"opens" the array. Then you put each item you want in the array
separated by commas, just like when you did function arguments. Lastly
you end the array with a ``]`` (right-bracket) to indicate that it's
over. Ruby then takes this array and all its contents, and assigns them
to the variable.

.. warning::

    This is where things get tricky for people who can't
    program. Your brain has been taught that the world is flat. Remember
    in the last exercise where you put ``if-statements`` inside
    ``if-statements``? That probably made your brain hurt because most
    people do not ponder how to "nest" things inside things. In
    programming this is all over the place. You will find functions that
    call other functions that have ``if-statements`` that have arrays
    with arrays inside arrays. If you see a structure like this that you
    can't figure out, take out pencil and paper and break it down
    manually bit by bit until you understand it.

We now will build some arrays using some loops and print them out:

.. literalinclude:: missing.rb
    :language: ruby
    :linenos:

What You Should See
-------------------

::

    $ ruby ex32.rb
    This is count 1
    This is count 2
    This is count 3
    This is count 4
    This is count 5
    A fruit of type: apples
    A fruit of type: oranges
    A fruit of type: pears
    A fruit of type: apricots
    I got 1
    I got 'pennies'
    I got 2
    I got 'dimes'
    I got 3
    I got 'quarters'
    Adding 0 to the list.
    Adding 1 to the list.
    Adding 2 to the list.
    Adding 3 to the list.
    Adding 4 to the list.
    Adding 5 to the list.
    Element was: 0
    Element was: 1
    Element was: 2
    Element was: 3
    Element was: 4
    Element was: 5
    $

Extra Credit
------------

1. Take a look at how you used the range ``(0..5)``. Look up the
   ``Range`` class to understand it.
2. Could you have avoided that ``for-loop`` entirely on line 24 and just
   assigned ``(0..5)`` directly to ``elements``?
3. Find the Ruby documentation on arrays and read about them. What other
   operations can you do to arrays besides ``push``?

