# Exercise 42: Gothons Are Getting Classy
While it's fun to put functions inside of hashes, you'd think there'd be something in Ruby that does this for you. There is: the `class` keyword. Using `class` is how you create an even more awesome "hash with functions" than the one you made in the last exercise. Classes have all sorts of powerful features and uses that I could never go into in this book. Instead, you'll just use them like they're fancy `hashes` with functions.

A programming language that uses classes is called "Object Oriented Programming". This is an old style of programming where you make "things" and you "tell" those things to do work. You've been doing a lot of this. A whole lot. You just didn't know it. Remember when you were doing this:

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    stuff = ['Test', 'This', 'Out']
    puts stuff.join(' ')
{% endhighlight %}

You were actually using classes. The variable stuff is actually an Array class. The `stuff.join(' ')` is calling the `join` function of the `Array` and passing `' '` (just an empty space), which is also a class, a `String` class. It's all classes!

Well, and objects, but let's just skip that word for now. You'll learn what those are after you make some classes. How do you make classes? Very similar to how you made the `ROOMS` hash, but easier:

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    class TheThing
      attr_reader :number
    
      def initialize()
        @number = 0
      end
    
      def some_function()
        puts "I got called."
      end
    
      def add_me_up(more)
        @number += more
        return @number
      end
    end
    
    # two different things
    a = TheThing.new
    b = TheThing.new
    
    a.some_function()
    b.some_function()
    
    puts a.add_me_up(20)
    puts a.add_me_up(20)
    puts b.add_me_up(30)
    puts b.add_me_up(30)
    
    puts a.number
    puts b.number
{% endhighlight %}

See the `@` symbol before the `@name` variable?  That makes it an instance variable.  Every instance of `TheThing` that you create will have its own value for `@name`.  Instance variables are hidden away inside the object.  We can't get at the name simply by typing `a.number` *unless* we explicitly make that data readable to the outside world. 

By including the `attr_reader :name` line.  To make `@name` write-only, we could do `attr_writer :name`.  And to make it read/write we could do `attr_accessor :name`.  Ruby uses the good object-oriented principle of encapsulating data. 

Next, see the `initialize` method? That is how you set up a Ruby class with internal variables. You can set them with the `@` symbol just like I showed you here. See also how we then use this in `add_me_up()` later which lets you add to the `@number` you created. Later you can see how we use this to add to our number and print it.

Classes are very powerful, so you should read everything you can about them and play with them. You actually know how to use them, you just have to try it. In fact, I want to play some guitar right now so I'm not going to give you an exercise to type. You're going to write an exercise using classes.

Here's how we'd do exercise 41 using classes instead of the thing we created:

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    class Game
    
      def initialize(start)
        @quips = [
          "You died.  You kinda suck at this.",
          "Nice job, you died ...jackass.",
          "Such a luser.",
          "I have a small puppy that's better at this."
        ]
        @start = start
        puts "in init @start = " + @start.inspect
      end
    
      def prompt()
        print "> "
      end
    
      def play()
        puts "@start => " + @start.inspect
        next_room = @start
    
        while true
          puts "\n--------"
          room = method(next_room)
          next_room = room.call()
        end
      end
    
      def death()
        puts @quips[rand(@quips.length())]
        Process.exit(1)
      end
    
      def central_corridor()
        puts "The Gothons of Planet Percal #25 have invaded your ship and destroyed"
        puts "your entire crew.  You are the last surviving member and your last"
        puts "mission is to get the neutron destruct bomb from the Weapons Armory,"
        puts "put it in the bridge, and blow the ship up after getting into an "
        puts "escape pod."
        puts "\n"
        puts "You're running down the central corridor to the Weapons Armory when"
        puts "a Gothon jumps out, red scaly skin, dark grimy teeth, and evil clown costume"
        puts "flowing around his hate filled body.  He's blocking the door to the"
        puts "Armory and about to pull a weapon to blast you."
    
        prompt()
        action = gets.chomp()
    
        if action == "shoot!"
          puts "Quick on the draw you yank out your blaster and fire it at the Gothon."
          puts "His clown costume is flowing and moving around his body, which throws"
          puts "off your aim.  Your laser hits his costume but misses him entirely.  This"
          puts "completely ruins his brand new costume his mother bought him, which"
          puts "makes him fly into an insane rage and blast you repeatedly in the face until"
          puts "you are dead.  Then he eats you."
          return :death
    
        elsif action == "dodge!"
          puts "Like a world class boxer you dodge, weave, slip and slide right"
          puts "as the Gothon's blaster cranks a laser past your head."
          puts "In the middle of your artful dodge your foot slips and you"
          puts "bang your head on the metal wall and pass out."
          puts "You wake up shortly after only to die as the Gothon stomps on"
          puts "your head and eats you."
          return :death
    
        elsif action == "tell a joke"
          puts "Lucky for you they made you learn Gothon insults in the academy."
          puts "You tell the one Gothon joke you know:"
          puts "Lbhe zbgure vf fb sng, jura fur fvgf nebhaq gur ubhfr, fur fvgf nebhaq gur ubhfr."
          puts "The Gothon stops, tries not to laugh, then busts out laughing and can't move."
          puts "While he's laughing you run up and shoot him square in the head"
          puts "putting him down, then jump through the Weapon Armory door."
          return :laser_weapon_armory
    
        else
          puts "DOES NOT COMPUTE!"
          return :central_corridor
        end
      end
    
      def laser_weapon_armory()
        puts "You do a dive roll into the Weapon Armory, crouch and scan the room"
        puts "for more Gothons that might be hiding.  It's dead quiet, too quiet."
        puts "You stand up and run to the far side of the room and find the"
        puts "neutron bomb in its container.  There's a keypad lock on the box"
        puts "and you need the code to get the bomb out.  If you get the code"
        puts "wrong 10 times then the lock closes forever and you can't"
        puts "get the bomb.  The code is 3 digits."
        code = "%s%s%s" % [rand(9)+1, rand(9)+1, rand(9)+1]
        print "[keypad]> "
        guess = gets.chomp()
        guesses = 0
    
        while guess != code and guesses < 10
          puts "BZZZZEDDD!"
          guesses += 1
          print "[keypad]> "
          guess = gets.chomp()
        end
    
        if guess == code
          puts "The container clicks open and the seal breaks, letting gas out."
          puts "You grab the neutron bomb and run as fast as you can to the"
          puts "bridge where you must place it in the right spot."
          return :the_bridge
        else
          puts "The lock buzzes one last time and then you hear a sickening"
          puts "melting sound as the mechanism is fused together."
          puts "You decide to sit there, and finally the Gothons blow up the"
          puts "ship from their ship and you die."
          return :death
        end
      end
    
      def the_bridge()
        puts "You burst onto the Bridge with the netron destruct bomb"
        puts "under your arm and surprise 5 Gothons who are trying to"
        puts "take control of the ship.  Each of them has an even uglier"
        puts "clown costume than the last.  They haven't pulled their"
        puts "weapons out yet, as they see the active bomb under your"
        puts "arm and don't want to set it off."
    
        prompt()
        action = gets.chomp()
    
        if action == "throw the bomb"
          puts "In a panic you throw the bomb at the group of Gothons"
          puts "and make a leap for the door.  Right as you drop it a"
          puts "Gothon shoots you right in the back killing you."
          puts "As you die you see another Gothon frantically try to disarm"
          puts "the bomb. You die knowing they will probably blow up when"
          puts "it goes off."
          return :death
    
        elsif action == "slowly place the bomb"
          puts "You point your blaster at the bomb under your arm"
          puts "and the Gothons put their hands up and start to sweat."
          puts "You inch backward to the door, open it, and then carefully"
          puts "place the bomb on the floor, pointing your blaster at it."
          puts "You then jump back through the door, punch the close button"
          puts "and blast the lock so the Gothons can't get out."
          puts "Now that the bomb is placed you run to the escape pod to"
          puts "get off this tin can."
          return :escape_pod
        else
          puts "DOES NOT COMPUTE!"
          return :the_bridge
        end
      end
    
      def escape_pod()
        puts "You rush through the ship desperately trying to make it to"
        puts "the escape pod before the whole ship explodes.  It seems like"
        puts "hardly any Gothons are on the ship, so your run is clear of"
        puts "interference.  You get to the chamber with the escape pods, and"
        puts "now need to pick one to take.  Some of them could be damaged"
        puts "but you don't have time to look.  There's 5 pods, which one"
        puts "do you take?"
    
        good_pod = rand(5)+1 
        print "[pod #]>"
        guess = gets.chomp()
    
        if guess.to_i != good_pod
          puts "You jump into pod %s and hit the eject button." % guess
          puts "The pod escapes out into the void of space, then"
          puts "implodes as the hull ruptures, crushing your body"
          puts "into jam jelly."
          return :death
        else
          puts "You jump into pod %s and hit the eject button." % guess
          puts "The pod easily slides out into space heading to"
          puts "the planet below.  As it flies to the planet, you look"
          puts "back and see your ship implode then explode like a"
          puts "bright star, taking out the Gothon ship at the same"
          puts "time.  You won!"
          Process.exit(0)
        end
      end
    end
    
    a_game = Game.new(:central_corridor)
    a_game.play()
{% endhighlight %}

## What You Should See
The output from this version of the game should be exactly the same as the previous version. In fact you'll notice that some of the code is nearly the same. Compare this new version of the game with the last one so you understand the changes that were made. Key things to really get are:

1. How you made a `class Game` and put functions inside it.
2. How `initialize` is a special initialization method that sets up important variables.
3. How you added functions to the class by nesting their definitions under the `class` keyword.
4. How you nested the contents of the functions under their names.
5. The concept of `@` and how it's used in `initialize`, `play`, and `death`.
6. How a Game was created at the end and then told to `play()` and how that got everything started.

## Extra Credit
1. Add some rooms to make sure you know how to work with a class.
2. Create a two-class version of this, where one is the `Map` and the other is the `Engine`. Hint: `play` goes in the `Engine`.
