# Exercise 19: Functions And Variables

Functions may have been a mind-blowing amount of information, but do not worry. Just keep doing these exercises and going through your checklist from the last exercise and you will eventually get it.

There is one tiny point though that you might not have realized which we'll reinforce right now: The variables in your function are not connected to the variables in your script. Here's an exercise to get you thinking about this:

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    def cheese_and_crackers(cheese_count, boxes_of_crackers)
      puts "You have #{cheese_count} cheeses!"
      puts "You have #{boxes_of_crackers} boxes of crackers!"
      puts "Man that's enough for a party!"
      puts "Get a blanket."
      puts # a blank line
    end
    
    puts "We can just give the function numbers directly:"
    cheese_and_crackers(20, 30)
    
    puts "OR, we can use variables from our script:"
    amount_of_cheese = 10
    amount_of_crackers = 50
    cheese_and_crackers(amount_of_cheese, amount_of_crackers)
    
    puts "We can even do math inside too:"
    cheese_and_crackers(10 + 20, 5 + 6)
    
    puts "And we can combine the two, variables and math:"
    cheese_and_crackers(amount_of_cheese + 100, amount_of_crackers + 1000)
{% endhighlight %}

This shows all different ways we're able to give our function `cheese_and_crackers` the values it needs to print them. We can give it straight numbers. We can give it variables. We can give it math. We can even combine math and variables.

In a way, the arguments to a function are kind of like our `=` character when we make a variable. In fact, if you can use `=` to name something, you can usually pass it to a function as an argument.

## What You Should See

You should study the output of this script and compare it with what you think you should get for each of the examples in the script.

    $ ruby ex19.rb
    We can just give the function numbers directly:
    You have 20 cheeses!
    You have 30 boxes of crackers!
    Man that's enough for a party!
    Get a blanket.
    
    OR, we can use variables from our script:
    You have 10 cheeses!
    You have 50 boxes of crackers!
    Man that's enough for a party!
    Get a blanket.
    
    We can even do math inside too:
    You have 30 cheeses!
    You have 11 boxes of crackers!
    Man that's enough for a party!
    Get a blanket.
    
    And we can combine the two, variables and math:
    You have 110 cheeses!
    You have 1050 boxes of crackers!
    Man that's enough for a party!
    Get a blanket.
    $

# Extra Credit
1. Go back through the script and type a comment above each line explaining in English what it does.
2. Start at the bottom and read each line backwards, saying all the important characters.
3. Write at least one more function of your own design, and run it 10 different ways.
