# Exercise 35: Branches and Functions

You have learned to do `if-statements`, functions, and arrays. Now it's time to bend your mind. Type this in, and see if you can figure out what it's doing.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    def prompt()
      print "> "
    end
    
    def gold_room()
      puts "This room is full of gold.  How much do you take?"
    
      prompt; next_move = gets.chomp 
      if next_move.include? "0" or next_move.include? "1"
        how_much = next_move.to_i()
      else
        dead("Man, learn to type a number.")
      end
    
      if how_much < 50
        puts "Nice, you're not greedy, you win!"
        Process.exit(0)
      else
        dead("You greedy bastard!")
      end
    end
    
    
    def bear_room()
      puts "There is a bear here."
      puts "The bear has a bunch of honey."
      puts "The fat bear is in front of another door."
      puts "How are you going to move the bear?"
      bear_moved = false
    
      while true
        prompt; next_move = gets.chomp
    
        if next_move == "take honey"
          dead("The bear looks at you then slaps your face off.")
        elsif next_move == "taunt bear" and not bear_moved
          puts "The bear has moved from the door. You can go through it now."
          bear_moved = true
        elsif next_move == "taunt bear" and bear_moved
          dead("The bear gets pissed off and chews your leg off.")
        elsif next_move == "open door" and bear_moved
          gold_room()
        else
          puts "I got no idea what that means."
        end
      end
    end
    
    def cthulu_room()
      puts "Here you see the great evil Cthulu."
      puts "He, it, whatever stares at you and you go insane."
      puts "Do you flee for your life or eat your head?"
    
      prompt; next_move = gets.chomp
    
      if next_move.include? "flee"
        start()
      elsif next_move.include? "head"
        dead("Well that was tasty!")
      else
        cthulu_room()
      end
    end
    
    def dead(why)
      puts "#{why}  Good job!"
      Process.exit(0)
    end
    
    def start()
      puts "You are in a dark room."
      puts "There is a door to your right and left."
      puts "Which one do you take?"
    
      prompt; next_move = gets.chomp
    
      if next_move == "left"
        bear_room()
      elsif next_move == "right"
        cthulu_room()
      else
        dead("You stumble around the room until you starve.")
      end
    end
    
    start()
{% endhighlight %}

## What You Should See

Here's me playing the game:

    $ ruby ex35.rb
    You are in a dark room.
    There is a door to your right and left.
    Which one do you take?
    > left
    There is a bear here.
    The bear has a bunch of honey.
    The fat bear is in front of another door.
    How are you going to move the bear?
    > taunt bear
    The bear has moved from the door. You can go through it now.
    > open door
    This room is full of gold.  How much do you take?
    > asf
    Man, learn to type a number. Good job!
    $

## Extra Credit
1. Draw a map of the game and how you flow through it.
2. Fix all of your mistakes, including spelling mistakes.
3. Write comments for the functions you do not understand. Remember **RDoc** comments?
4. Add more to the game. What can you do to both simplify and expand it.
5. The `gold_room` has a weird way of getting you to type a number. What are all the bugs in this way of doing it?  Can you make it better than just checking if "1" or "0" are in the number? Look at how `to_i()` works for clues.
