---
layout: post
title: "Exercise 10: What Was That?"
---
# Exercise 10: What Was That?
In Exercise 9 I threw you some new stuff, just to keep you on your toes. I showed you two ways to make a string that goes across multiple lines. In the first way, I put the characters `\n` (back-slash n) between the names of the months. What these two characters do is put a new line character into the string at that point.

This use of the `\` (back-slash) character is a way we can put difficult-to-type characters into a string. There are plenty of these "escape sequences" available for different characters you might want to put in, but there's a special one, the double back-slash which is just two of them `\\`. These two characters will print just one back-slash. We'll try a few of these sequences so you can see what I mean.

Another important escape sequence is to escape a single-quote `'` or double-quote `"`. Imagine you have a string that uses double-quotes and you want to put a double-quote in for the output. If you do this `"I "understand" joe."` then Ruby will get confused since it will think the `"` around `"understand"` actually ends the string. You need a way to tell Ruby that the `"` inside the string isn't a real double-quote.

To solve this problem you escape double-quotes and single-quotes so Ruby knows to include in the string. Here's an example:

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    "I am 6'2\" tall."  # escape double-quote inside string
    'I am 6\'2" tall.'  # escape single-quote inside string
{% endhighlight %}

The second way is by using here document syntax, which usess `<<NAME` and works like a string, but you also can put as many lines of text you as want until you type `NAME` again. We'll also play with these.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    tabby_cat = "\tI'm tabbed in."
    persian_cat = "I'm split\non a line."
    backslash_cat = "I'm \\ a \\ cat."
    
    fat_cat = <<MY_HEREDOC
    I'll do a list:
    \t* Cat food
    \t* Fishies
    \t* Catnip\n\t* Grass
    MY_HEREDOC
    
    puts tabby_cat
    puts persian_cat
    puts backslash_cat
    puts fat_cat
{% endhighlight %}

## What You Should See
Look for the tab characters that you made. In this exercise the spacing is important to get right.

    $ ruby ex10.rb
    	I'm tabbed in.
    I'm split
    on a line.
    I'm \ a \ cat.
    
    I'll do a list:
    	* Cat food
    	* Fishies
    	* Catnip
    	* Grass
    
    $

## Extra Credit
1. Search online to see what other escape sequences are available.
2. Combine escape sequences and format strings to create a more complex format.
