---
layout: post
title: "Exercise 20: Functions And Files"
---
# Exercise 20: Functions And Files

Remember your checklist for functions, then do this exercise paying close attention to how functions and files can work together to make useful stuff.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
    input_file = ARGV[0]
    
    def print_all(f)
      puts f.read()
    end
    
    def rewind(f)
      f.seek(0, IO::SEEK_SET)
    end
    
    def print_a_line(line_count, f)
      puts "#{line_count} #{f.readline()}"
    end
    
    current_file = File.open(input_file)
    
    puts "First let's print the whole file:"
    puts # a blank line
    
    print_all(current_file)
    
    puts "Now let's rewind, kind of like a tape."
    
    rewind(current_file)
    
    puts "Let's print three lines:"
    
    current_line = 1
    print_a_line(current_line, current_file)
    
    current_line = current_line + 1
    print_a_line(current_line, current_file)
    
    current_line = current_line + 1
    print_a_line(current_line, current_file)
{% endhighlight %}

Pay close attention to how we pass in the current line number each time we run `print_a_line`.

# What You Should See
    $ ruby ex20.rb test.txt
    First let's print the whole file:
    
    To all the people out there.
    I say I don't like my hair.
    I need to shave it off.
    
    Now let's rewind, kind of like a tape.
    Let's print three lines:
    1 To all the people out there.
    2 I say I don't like my hair.
    3 I need to shave it off.
    
    $

## Extra Credit
1. Go through and write English comments for each line to understand what's going on.
2. Each time `print_a_line` is run you are passing in a variable `current_line`. Write out what `current_line` is equal to on each function call, and trace how it becomes `line_count` in `print_a_line`.
3. Find each place a function is used, and go check its def to make sure that you are giving it the right arguments.
4. Research online what the `seek` function for file does. Look at the `rdoc` documentation using the `ri` command and see if you can figure it out from there.
5. Research the shorthand notation `+=` and rewrite the script to use that.
